So you landed yourself a helpdesk role, you've been in it for a year or 2, and now you're ready to do something bigger and better but you don't know what or how to get there.

I'm afraid the answer may not be one you want to hear, but: it's all up to you. You're the only one who can make it happen, and no one will tell you what to do next.

The formula for getting out is:

Decide on a specialty
Learn that specialty - this can be self-study, homelabs, a BootCamp, certifications, whatever else
Get a job in that specialty. You can do this within your company (easier), or by getting a new job (pays more)
Sounds easy, right? But most people who get stuck in helpdesk fail at step #1. They get choice paralysis - there are too many options, and no one will pick one for them - your boss won't tell you what to do, no one here can say what will be your best choice. It's hard, but this is 100% up to you. The good news is that there are no wrong choices, other than never picking anything - that's always the wrong choice. And yes, that includes the, "I'll do anything" decision - that's also not a choice.

But there are no perfect choices, either. "What's the most future-proof? What's the highest paying? What will let me work from home? What can't be outsourced? What can't be done by AI?" Sorry - there are no right answers to those questions because the market changes too quickly. You just have to pick something. The worst part is there isn't even a complete list you can choose from - the market changes that quickly. However, we try to keep as complete a list as we can for reference.

This is actually one of the reasons that IT pays so much - it's really hard to navigate a successful IT career because it changes so frequently. There are no set paths - what worked for one person might never work again. Give 5 people a specific set of instructions and there will be 5 very different results. It's not like becoming an electrician or a plumber when you learn a common path at a steady pace and take on more responsibility until you become an expert, and those are the same skills you'll retire with.

No, things change too fast in IT. Products evolve, new technology replaces old, and market leaders drop out and are replaced. It takes constant learning & paying attention to the market to really succeed, and step one is choosing something to focus on. Don't fail at step one.

credit -> https://www.reddit.com/r/ITCareerQuestions/wiki/getout/
